---
author: chrisinajar
title: '"First"'
excerpt: >
  The first post on the Angel Arena Website, introducing the project and the website itself.
---

This is the first post on the Angel Arena Allstars website / development blog. Today I'll mostly be strolling down memory lane and talking about what it's like trying to bootstrap an open source community.

First off, I'm [Chris](/team/chrisinajar). I'm the technical lead for this project, but I also function as a project manager and community manager. I'm the person who's been working with open source projects forever bringing everyone else up to speed on how to use tools like Github or Jekyll.

## The purpose of this website
Eventually we're going to want a website anyway to show off all the cool stuff we're making. There's no reason not to be transparent about all the mechanics and this is the right place to post them. I also want a spot to document our process since this game mode is being created in a rather substantially different way than most others are.

Check the blog for development / design updates. Watch the site for information on mechanics, heroes, and bosses. Make sure you [star the github](https://github.com/angelarenaallstars/aaa){: target="_blank"}, too.

## How this all started
Baumi and his crew are fucking excellent at Angel Arena games. We've been continuously breaking the game and pushing the meta to the point where the game is almost unrecognizable from how it used to be played. We've optimized a dozen strategies, and seen most of them nerfed. We've got this game figured out.

This inevitably leads to thoughts like, "wouldn't it be awesome if this game was balanced?" We'd all joke about making our own some day and fixing all the problems. All these conversations got me thinking about the itemized actual problems with the Angel Arena implementations in Dota 2, and what we would do better.

I thought about it a lot...

I created a google doc, titled "MNI Arena", and posted it during one of Baumi's streams open for comments. It initialled outlined two things; what makes Angel Arena games fun and how to keep that; what makes Angel Arena suck and how to prevent that. We all got very excited and quickly came up with a better name to work with for the time being, *I Can't Believe It's Not Angel Arena*.

We all agreed to run this whole thing as a passion project and structure it like an open source community. Baumi sent out an open casting call to anyone with any sort of skill that they would like to lend to the project, and it worked. We got translators, coders, musicials, 3d modelers, 3d animators, 2d artists, a guy taking courses in daemonology / theology, a whole slew of bug testers, some math nerds for balance.... Over **700 emails** flowed in. Somehow over the course of god-knows-how-many-hours Baumi managed to narrow this list down to about 40 or 50 people to function as the "core team" to get the project kickstarted.

## The name
We got into a conversation about if it was okay for us to use the name "Angel Arena" or not. We all knew it was okay, but we're the type to talk it out. Baumi made an excellent analogy to Dota itself, which is that Dota was originally a genre of games modes. There were a bunch of different Dota games made by different people with different heroes. Angel Arena, similarly, has several versions across several different games.

It goes deeper though, see whenever you look at old WC3 Dota stuff it's always for "Dota Allstars". This is because some bright young lad decided to go through all of the existing Dota games and take all of the best aspects of team, cherry picking items, heroes, and basic map concepts along the way. He combined them all together into a game mode called "Dota Allstars".

We want to do that for Angel Arena. So we are, the team has gone through and found all of the working versions of Angel Arena and given them all a spin to see how each plays. We're applying the same philosophy as Dota Allstars did, we will take all of the best aspects from each version and create the best possible variant of Angel Arena we can.

## How this whole "community" thing is working
As I said before, we function like an open source project. Most of what we do revolves around Github and Discord, the former for collaboration and the later for communication. On the Discord, each team has 2 basic channels they run: help and discussion. Discussion is where that team can talk amongst themselves and anyone can see, while help is where anyone can post. This allows us all to have control over our teams, but we can also contribute to any other area we find interesting. For example, I find myself in balance and design an awful lot.

It's been a learning process trying to get everyone speaking the same language and functioning together. In most projects like this, the people coming together already share a basic workflow and it is instead a problem of integrating more people. Here we have people who have never worked on a project with others online like this, or even heard of Github.

People are optimizing their workflows and communication styles every day. At first people bickered over details a lot on chat, it's hard to recognize interesting mechanics and *leave the damn balance for the damn balance team*. Now-a-days that's much more rare and people tend to realize when they're doing it and backing down quickly, often even coming back with interesting and constructive ideas based upon what they were once against.

It's an interesting challenge, but it's going really well.

## Okay, lets talk about the actual game though
We'll create a followup post about the core mechanics of the game in the coming days.
